# What is Spike-in

## I. Spike-in

* Definition: RNA spike-in is **RNA transcripts of known sequence and quantity** used to **calibrate measurements** in RNA hybridization assays, such as microarray experiments, RT-qPCR, and RNA-Seq
* With the advent of microarray and the commercialization of high-throughput methods for sequencing and RNA detection assays, positive control oligonucleotides are necessary to **provide a standard of target sequence concentration**. RNA spike-in controls can provide a measure of sensitivity and specificity of RNA-Seq experiment.
* Origin: mimic eukaryotic RNAs or C. elegans RNA mimic.
* Usage: A known quantity of RNA spike-in is mixed with the experiment sample during preparation, used as **a normalization control for RNA expression profiling**. Many researchers choose to spike a synthetic RNA into their RNA prep to monitor RNA recovery and reverse transcription efficiency.

## II. Long RNA spike-in kit

* ERCC RNA Spike-In Mix, ThermoFisher \#4456740.
* 92 transcripts designed to be 250-2000 nt in length.

> [ERCC RNA Spike-in Mix kit Manuel](https://github.com/lulab/intranet/blob/master/wetlab_protocol/exRNA-seq/purification/ERCC%20RNA%20spike-in.pdf)
>
> [ERCC RNA Spike-in Mix kit online](https://www.thermofisher.com/order/catalog/product/4456740#/4456740)

## III. Short RNA spike-in kit

### Commercial kit

* ExiSEQ NGS Spike-in kit -- small RNA/microRNA, ExIQEN \#800100.
* 52 synthetic 5' phosphorylated microrNAs of different concentrations.

> [Quike-guide for ExiSEQ NGS Spike-in kit](https://github.com/lulab/intranet/blob/master/wetlab_protocol/exRNA-seq/purification/ExiSEQ%20RNA%20spike-in.pdf)

### Other choices

* miRNeasy Serum/Plasma Spike-In Control \(QIAGEN\), a C. elegans miR-39 miRNA mimic.
* Customized RNA mimics.

